DOCSP-59346 Connection Option Template (#158)
10gen/docs-shared: dbx/connection-options-template.txt

> .. _c-connection-options:

Reviewer: [s] Maybe rename this so it's clearer it's meant to be changed and doesn't accidentally get carried over to another driver:
```suggestion
.. _template-connection-options:
```

Author: Good idea! Replaced all instances of 'c' in refs to 'template'

> .. NOTE: Meant to be copied and used as a template for the connection options page. 

Reviewer: [s] Suggestion to explain the usage of this doc more:
```suggestion
.. NOTE: You can use this template for the connection options page in a drivers documentation set. Copy this content into the corresponding page for the driver you are documenting, and replace and edit content as needed. This is not meant to be used as a shared include. 
```

Reviewer: In case writers think they can include this and then use replace or something for whatever their specific content is.

Author: Perfect, thanks!

==========================
Specify Connection Options
==========================

.. TODO: replace all instances of "c" with the driver's short name (e.g. "node")

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: connection string, URI, server, Atlas, settings, configure
   :description: Explore MongoDB C Driver connection options, including network, authentication, retry, and timeout settings configurable by using connection string or URI.

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. toctree::
   :caption: Specify Connection Options

   Stable API </connect/connection-options/stable-api>
   Connection Pools </connect/connection-options/connection-pools>
   AWS Lambda <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/manage-connections-aws-lambda/>

.. Compress Network Traffic </connect/connection-options/network-compression>

Overview
--------

This page describes the connection options available in the {+driver-short+} and
explains how to apply them to your MongoDB connection.

How to Specify Connection Options
---------------------------------

> .. TODO: Replace these sections with whatever methods for specify the connection option. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. TODO: Replace these sections with whatever methods the driver you are documenting supports for specifying the connection option. 
```

The following sections describe the ways in which you can specify connection options.

.. _c-connection-uri:

Use the Connection String
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you pass a connection string to the ``monogoc_client_t`` structure, you can include
connection options in the string as ``<name>=<value>`` pairs. In the following example,
the connection string contains the ``connectTimeoutMS`` option with a value of ``60000``
and the ``tls`` option with a value of ``true``:

.. literalinclude::
   :language:
   :dedent:
   :start-after:
   :end-before:

To learn more about the options that you can specify in a connection string, see

> :manual:`Connection String Options </reference/connection-string-options>` in the

Reviewer: [q] Same question as above, should these now be refs?

{+mdb-server+} manual.

.. _c-mongo-client-settings:

Use the URI Options API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use URI options to configure connection settings in code
rather than in a connection string. Configuring the connection this way makes it easier to
change settings at runtime, helps you catch errors during compilation, and provides
more configuration options than the connection string.

To set connection options by using the URI option, perform the
following steps:

1. Create a ``mongoc_uri_t`` struct with your connection string
#. Use a URI option function to specify your desired connection option
#. Create a new client with the URI by passing the URI to ``mongoc_client_new_from_uri()``

The following code example shows how to perform the preceding steps:

.. literalinclude::
   :language:
   :dedent:
   :start-after:
   :end-before:

Connection Options
------------------

The following sections describe the connection options available in the
{+driver-short+} and how to specify them by using a connection string directly or

> a URI option.

Reviewer: [s] Suggestion to use similar language to other pages that include tabs:
```suggestion
The following sections describe the connection options available in the
{+driver-short+} and how to specify them by using a connection string directly or
a URI option. Select the :guilabel:`Connection String` tab  or :guilabel:`URI Option` tab to see the corresponding syntax:
```

.. _c-replica-set-options:

Replica Set Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: mongoc-connection-uri

      Direct Connection
      ```````````````````

      .. sharedinclude:: dbx/connection-options/directConnection.rst

      *Data Type* : 

>       *Default Value* : 

Reviewer: [q] Are these required? Just wondering as the existing C driver page doesn't have this part so curious how it looks when rendered and if they are required to have a value specific to each driver?

Author: I started on C; here's what it will look like rendered: https://deploy-preview-19608--mongodb-c-driver.netlify.app/docs/languages/c/c-driver/upcoming/connect/connection-options/#replica-set-options

Please let me know what you think of how it looks! 

We will have to hunt down the data type and defaults values for each of these options. Some drivers already have this info, some don't.

Reviewer: Gotcha that makes sense! I think that preview looks good maybe use bold instead of italics, similar to how we format the text in the tables? What do you think?

         :start-after:
         :end-before:

      You can also set ``journal`` by using a ``mongoc_write_concern_t`` structure:

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

Read Concern Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: mongo-client-settings

      Read Concern Level
      ````````````````````

      .. sharedinclude:: dbx/connection-options/readConcernLevel.rst

      *Data Type* :

      *Default Value* :

      *Example* :

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

   .. tab:: URI Option
      :tabid: mongo-url-builder

      Read Concern Level
      ````````````````````

      .. sharedinclude:: dbx/connection-options/readConcernLevel.rst

      *Data Type* :

      *Default Value* :

      *Example* :

      You can set the read concern level by using the ``MONGOC_URI_READCONCERNLEVEL`` option:

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

>       You can also set the read concern level by using a ``mongoc_read_concern_t`` structure:

Reviewer: [q] Is this also driver-specific and should it include a TODO to call it out?

         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

      Max Staleness
      ``````````````

      .. sharedinclude:: dbx/connection-options/maxStaleness.rst

      *Data Type* :

      *Default Value* :

      *Example* :

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

      Local Threshold
      ```````````````

      .. sharedinclude:: dbx/connection-options/localThreshold.rst

      *Data Type* :

      *Default Value* :

      *Example* :

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

   .. tab:: URI Option
      :tabid: mongo-url-builder

      Read Preference
      `````````````````

      .. sharedinclude:: dbx/connection-options/readPreference.rst

      *Data Type* :

      *Default Value* :

      *Example* :

      You can set the read preference by using a ``mongoc_read_prefs_t`` structure:

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

>       You can also set the read preference by using the ``MONGOC_URI_READPREFERENCE`` option:

Reviewer: Same question 😅

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

      Max Staleness
      ``````````````

      .. sharedinclude:: dbx/connection-options/maxStaleness.rst

      *Data Type* :

      *Default Value* :

      *Example* :

      You can set the max staleness by using the ``MONGOC_URI_MAXSTALENESSSECONDS`` option:

      .. literalinclude::
         :language:
         :copyable: true
         :dedent:
         :start-after:
         :end-before:

>       You can also set the max staleness by using a ``mongoc_read_prefs_t`` structure:

Reviewer: Here also?
